---
layout: page
title: BTA 1.7.5 Modloader
permalink: /bta175/
---

I had stopped playing Minecraft for many, many years. My original experience was getting the PCGAMER demo from the web and play for more time than allowed with some soft hacking, and later getting a modded r1.2.5 and playing it for a while. Then I abandoned it completely until 2020 when my kid was old enough to play. After some time we wanted to play together so I looked into setting up a server. Around that time BTA 1.7.5 just came out and I found it easy to set up and that was our first minecraft together. We spent quite some time having a good time and I treasure those memories very fondly.

Some time ago my kid asked me to relaunch the server and we were playing around a bit and I thought it would be cool if I could mod the server and the client so it was easy to add content. Looked at the sources and BTA 1.7.5 was close enough to vanilla b1.7.3 so many mods for that version could actually work with little to no modifications provided the right modloader was used, so I set myself to do just that. I ended extending the modloader a bit and of course made everythign multiplaer compatible. Of course, mods for the client *won't* work for the server, but you can adapt them easily.

## Why 1.7.5? 

Because that's the version we played and that's the version our server runs it, and it has the right amount of features and feels almost like vanilla beta with some cool stuff added. I really love how BTA has evolved, but the "beta feel" is gone as it has grown to become something original and with its own personality. **Also because the fact that the code base is so similar to vanilla is what makes possible to easily port existing modloader mods**.

Interestingly enough, there *are* mods that work untouched in BTA 1.7.5 as long as they don't modify base classes, but I've decompiled those I wanted to integrate and modify them to work together and also to make them SMP compatible. 

Here you can download the modloader package and a few mods I've modified / ported. I will add more, eventually. If you are interested in a specific mod just contact me and we can discuss it. I'm also planning to write some documentation so you can do it yourself or produce your own mod.

# Downloads

## BTA 1.7.5_01 Modloader

## Existing Mods ported by me

### Recipe Book

A port of the original mod by Risigami. Craft a recipe book using a book and an ink sack. Right click with it to watch available recipes.

### Building blocks

Adds some blocks from my own Infhell that I like to use in my builds. Blocks / recipes are:

* **Small stone bricks**: craft with 2x2 stone bricks.
* **Packed cobblestone**: craft with 2x2 cobblestone.
* **Cement powder**: shapeless sand + gravel. Affected by gravity.
* **Cement**: Either shapeless cement powder + glay or making cement powder wet (throw poder into water or pour water over it).
* **Iron wire**: get 4 from 2 iron ingots.
* **Cement with wooden frame**: Surround 1 cement block with 4 sticks.
* **Cement with iron frame**: Surround 1 cement block with 4 iron wires.

Download the client, server, src.

### 1.7.6 blocks

Adds some blocks from BTA 1.7.6, most promonently the trommel. Blocks added:

* **Paintable planks**: You can dye planks. Died planks work just like normal planks in recipes.
* **Lamps**: Powered by redstone. Craft with quartz over redstone surrounded by glass.
* **Quartz**: Blast smelt cobbled granite.
* **Marble**: Blast smelt cobbled limestone.
* **Marble bricks**: craft with 2x2 marble blocks.
* **Chiseled marble**: craft with 2x2 marble bricks.
* **Marble pillar**: craft with 1x2 marble blocks.
* **Olivine**: Blast smelt cobbled basalt.
* **Tinted Glass**: Let's you see through but won't let light propagate. Craft combining 2 glass, 2 olivine, in cross pattern.
* **Iron Trapdoor**: craft with 3x2 ingot irons.
* **Trommel**: refer to the BTA documentation on how this works.
* **Iron and Gold nuggets**: Use two of each to get ingots.

Download the client, server, src.

### Baby animals

A port of Baby Animals for b1.7.3 by CocoValley. I made it work in SMP too.

Download the client, server, src.

### Twilight Forest

This is a port of the original TF mod for b1.7.3 by Benimatic. It works in SMP too and it was adapted to work alongside BTA's Dimension system, therefore not requiring the old Dimensions Mod. To enter the twilight forest hold a mushroom while entering a nether portal.

Download the client, server, src.

### Coral Reef

A port of Nandonalt's Coral Reef Mod. Will add coral reefs to warm oceans.

Download the client, server, src.

### Web generation

Makes cobwebs generate naturally in some places.

Download the client, server, src.

### Early release structure

Adds mineshafts. Coming soon.

# How to write new / port existing mods

Coming soon, but it involves setting up MCP with a jars already patched, just like in the old days. 
